♪ [music] ♪
Up until now, pretty much
anyone can just
edit or create a store and that's not
ideal if you actually want to have a real
world application where you have owners of
a store and only the owner of that store
would be able to edit it. So, this is the
finished application here.
This is how it's going to work. We're
going to go to one of the stores that we
have here and, by default, it's going to
show you nothing. You need to log in with
GitHub, Facebook or Twitter. So, I'm going
to go ahead and log in with GitHub,
and once I've logged in, the first person
to log in to that store with either one is
going to be the owner of that actual
store, then I can go ahead and load some
samples and add some stuff to my order.
However, if I were then to log out of
here, I wouldn't be able to actually
manage that inventory. If I were then to
log in with Twitter and authorize that
application, you're going to see,
"Sorry, you aren't the owner of the
store," because I logged in as a different
person. I can log out again, log in with
GitHub, and I'm back to being able to edit
the actual store. So, we are doing
everything client-side, so how do you do
authentication when it's only client-side?
That's really where Firebase comes in.
We're going to split this into two parts.
First, we're going to,
like, lock it down or pseudo lock it down
on the client side where people just won't
be able to see this actual form to edit
it, and then we're going to actually go on
the back end of Firebase and make sure
that if anyone were to sneakily be able to
get this editing form to show, even if
they weren't the store owner,
then Firebase would just reject them
because they aren't the actual store
owner. So, that's what we want to do here.
I'm going to close it down, and we want to
go to our Firebase here,
and go to the Authentication tab, "Auth."
Then we want to add a couple different
sign-up methods, so we're going to set up
a sign-up method, and in this tutorial,
I'm going to show you how to do Facebook,
Twitter, and GitHub.
Those are the most popular. However, you
can use email and password,
and Google, and all kinds of other stuff
here. So, I'm going to turn on Facebook
first. Now, what you need to do is go to
Facebook and create an application.
So it's developers.facebook.com/apps and
we want to create an app called Catch of
the Day, and we're going to put it in, how
about the Business,
the fish business, and create an
application...oh, "Please select all
photos which show a wristwatch." Wrist,
wrist, wrist, wrist, wristwatch.
That is a waterfall. Facebook login, so
I'll click "Get Started Here," and we want
to first, "Valid OAuth redirect URLs." So,
what we want to do is take this URL that
they've given us, and then you need to
make sure that you actually hit enter so
that it looks like a blue bubble.
Sometimes I always forget to do that and
it does it. And, finally, "Embedded
Browser OAuth Login," you need to make
sure that is checked on, scroll to the
bottom and click "Save Changes," then go
to the Dashboard, and we need the
application ID, which is this right here,
so I'm going to paste that into my "App
ID" here. I'm going to enable it,
I guess. And, then, the Secret you also
need is...you can show it here,
you can grab it. Don't ever put this in
any client-side code just because now that
I've shown you this, I'm going to have to
reset them after this video.
That's not something anyone should ever
see. So, I'm going to paste it in there,
click "Save." Good, I've set that one up.
Now, Twitter, I want to turn on as well.
I'm going to go to Twitter. I've already
created an application with Twitter,
and then you can see that if I go to
Twitter, it's going to ask me for this
callback URL. This callback URLs is really
important. This is not local host or
anything like that. This is the actual URL
that Firebase gives you.
And I'm going to update that, then I'm
going to go to Details.
I'm going to grab...actually, no, back to
Settings, or Keys and Access Tokens.
Going to grab the API Key, I'm going to
grab the Secret...save that.
Then, finally, GitHub, we want to turn on.
I'm going to go to GitHub and create one
called "Catch of the Day," and it's going
to be wesbos.com, it's going to be "cool
app," and then, again the URL, very
important here...going to grab that from
Firebase here, paste that in, make sure
you don't actually copy the "CANCEL SAVE"
button, register it. Good, it's going to
give us a Client ID and the Secret.
So you see how we have to put all this
info into Firebase and not our app,
and that's just because we can't put the
sensitive information in an application
that's entirely client-side because anyone
would be able to crack it open and find
that info. So, save that. Good, so I've
enabled Facebook, Twitter,
and GitHub.
Now we need to actually write some code.
So we're going to open up our inventory
component and first what we want to do is
create a method that's going to render out
the buttons GitHub, Facebook, and Twitter.
So, I'm going to create a method called
"renderLogin," and, then, from that, I'm
just going to return some jsx,
which I'm going to paste in here and just
go over it with you real quick.
So, H2 of Inventory, "Sign in to manage
your... ," we've got a button with a
className of github. It's just going to
style it to be GitHub colors.
Really, the only important thing here is
that "onClick" of one of these buttons,
we are running a function called
"this.authenticate," which we're going to
create next. That's a method. And, then,
we pass it, the method that we'd like to
authenticate. It's either going to be
GitHub, Facebook, or Twitter.
Then what we want to do is go down to our
render function, and we need to do a
couple different returns here. So, above
this return, we're going to say if their
"!this.state.uid"...so, we are going to
store both the user ID,
which is the currently logged in person,
and we are also going to store in state
our application owner. So, we want to
check if the currently logged in user,
which is "uid," and the current store's
owner are the same people.
So, first we just want to check if there's
anyone logged in. If they're not,
maybe we'll put a comment above that,
"check if they are logged in...or,
check if they are not logged in at all,"
and if that is true, what we are going to
do is we will return simply just a div.
Inside of that div we'll say,
"this.renderLogin." Good. And we also want
to go to our constructor here and make
sure that we bind "renderLogin" so that we
can use this inside of our renderLogin
function. Good, no problem there. Let's
see where we're at right now.
So, we've got a bit of an error popping up
here. Cannot read property user ID of
null. Oh, yeah, so by default, what we
also need to do in our constructor is set
a user ID and a store owner to be nothing.
So we say, "this.state =" and the user ID
is going to be null and the owner is going
to also be null. So,
explicitly nothing by default. Good, and
then, what happens here is we've got "log
in GitHub, log in Facebook, log in
Twitter." If I click that, it's going to
error. It's going to say that that
authentication method is not defined.
Good. "this.authenticate" is not a
function. That makes sense because we have
bound it to run authenticate on click, but
we have not yet actually made that
authenticate method. That's fine. We'll go
over that in a second.
Then the next thing we need to do is check
if they are the owner of the current
store, So, "if this.state.uid" so we're
going to be storing the user's ID and
state once they log in...is not equal to
this.state.owner, then we're going to just
return some sorry div. Div, this is p,
"Sorry you aren't the owner of this
store!" Then we also need that log out
button, so I'm going to go right above
this render here and say "const logout ="
and that is simply just a button that says
"Log Out!" And, then, when someone clicks
that, we're actually going to hook it up
to our log out button, but we won't do
that just yet because we haven't created
this log out method. But, we can then take
that log out and put it right here.
Maybe someone logged in with the wrong
account, so we can put "logout" there.
And then we also probably want to put the
log out right in our inventory,
as well, because if they are logged in,
maybe they're on a shared computer,
you want to allow them to log out, as
well. So, save, let's see how we're doing
here. Good, no errors. Now, let's actually
hook up some of this work.
So, we've got that authenticate method
running so we can go ahead and code it in
ourselves, so we're going to say,
"authenticate" and that will take in a
provider, and, then when someone clicks
it, the log, "Trying to log in with
$provider." So, we made this authenticate
method. Make sure we bind it again up
here. Look, GitHub, trying to log in with
GitHub, trying to log in with Facebook,
trying to log in with Twitter. Good. So,
these buttons are working.
Now we actually have to run the code that
will pop it up and try to interface with
GitHub. So, for that,
we need to import our base.
Remember, we made this "base.js," which
connected to Firebase for us? We need to
import this. So, we say,
"import base from '.. /base'." Then, when
we authenticate, we're going run "base.
AuthWithOAuthPopup."
Triple check you've got all your capitals
ready there, that's a bit of a jumble, and
then we are going to pass it.
First, what provider. So, you normally
would pass it, like, "'twitter'" or
"'facebook'" or "'github'" here, but
because we just want to make one
authenticate method here, we have popped
that into a variable called "provider."
Good. And, then, the next thing that we
want to do is, when the person
successfully or unsuccessfully
authenticates, we need a callback
function. So, what is going to run as soon
as they click allow access?
And that's going to be what's called an
"authHandler," which we're going to build.
We'll say, "this.authHandler," and then
that's the next step, what we need to do,
"authHandler" and that is going to give us
an error if there is one,
and then like a payload, which I like to
call "authData." It's full of all the
information in it. And then we just,
"console.logauthData," and see where we're
at here. Let's go back up to our
constructor and we also want to duplicate,
"authenticate" is going to be
"authHandler," so you need to bind all of
these methods to that instance of the
component. Right now, click "LOG IN WITH
GITHUB," it's going to pop it open, and
it's going to ask me...the first time it's
going to ask me, the next time it's just
going to pop up and close immediately
because I've already authenticated it. Two
pictures of myself.
Authorize application, and then, oh, look
what comes back. So,
I just authenticated, which is right here.
We authenticated with GitHub,
and then when that successfully worked ,
we ran authHandler, which,
let's go to the authHandler function here,
and then let's look in here...error and
authData, this is what we're seeing right
here. The console logging the authData,
and inside of there you're going to see
information about the actual user.
You can see my email address, and any
other good information, as well as some
credentials.
Good, but what we actually need to do with
this data is then store it in state so
that we can re-render the inventory
component and show those boxes to edit.
So, we're going to go to our authHandler
function. If there's an error,
then we'll "console.errorerr" the actual
error itself and "return." Otherwise,
what we're going to do is "// grab the
store info." So, essentially what we need
to do is, if they've authenticated here,
we need to grab the reference to our
actual store. In this case, "Sparkling
Plain Leaves," and we're going to do a
couple things. We're going to claim it as
our own, as well as update our state.
So, we're going to connect directly to
Firebase. We're going to grab sort of a
copy of all the information about the
current store, and then when that info
comes back from Firebase, we're going to
say, "Okay, we've got all the information
about Sparkling Plain Leaves, we've got
this person, Wes, who's signed in.
Now, first of all, does Wes own this
store? If not, the question is,
"Is someone else the owner?" If that's not
true, then, finally,
we're going to set them as the actual
owner. Otherwise, we're not going to set
them as an owner. So, we've got to grab
the store info and we're going to connect
directly to Firebase for this. So we say,
"const storeRef = base.database," and what
that's going to do is connect us directly
with our Firebase database,
which will allow us to use any of the
existing Firebase APIs. So,
if you go to any of the Firebase
documentation, you can also use any of the
API that you have there if some of the
stuff in Rebase doesn't cut it for you.
And then we're going to say, "ref"
because, what a "ref" will do is it will
allow us to get just a piece of our
database. We don't want the entire
database with every single store that's
ever happened, we just want Sparkling
Plain Leaves. So we would normally just
type that in here, like,
"'sparkling... '"blah, blah, blah, but we
can't. We need to make it dynamic.
So we need to pass down the store again.
So we'll go to app, go to the bottom here,
go to our inventory, and we'll say,
"storeID=this.props.storeID." Good.
Then we will go to inventory.
What do you do when you add a new prop?
You go down here and you add it,
"storeId" is going to be a string, and
that's required that we pass it.
Okay. Oh, we got a bit of an error here.
Required prop storeId was not specified,
so, right away, it's catching an error. I
don't know what the error is,
but obviously I did something wrong.and
our prop types are kicking in to tell me
something went wrong. So, let me take a
quick look at when we passed it.
So, we passed the data here and, oh, it's
"this.props.params.storeId." So,
that was just a silly mistake that I made
and it caught it immediately.
See, there we go. Then we go back to our
inventory, back up to the function we were
just writing, "refthis.props.storeId."
Good. Then we want to get the data once,
so we'll say, "query the firebase once for
the store data." "storeRef.once'value',"
and then that returns to us. I call that a
"snapshot," which with Firebase is sort of
object of all the data. And then we can
say, "const data = snapshot.val." You have
to call "val" on it to get the actual data
out of it, otherwise,
it's going to be a blank object.
Then we claim it as our own if there's no
owner already. And the way that we claim
it as our own is we simply just set
"storeRef.set" and we are going to set the
owner to be...now we go back to this
authData dump that we have,
we say "authData.user.uid." And that UID
is going to be unique coming from GitHub.
Good. Now let's see how it is here. Let
this refresh. I'm going to open up my
Firebase, I'm going to go to the database,
so I'm going to open up Sparkling Plain
Leaves. See, we only have "fishes" here
right now, but if I log in with GitHub,
I go back, I see my owner now is opened on
up and that user ID is there.
Good, but we still can't see any of the
fishes, we can't load them,
we can't actually work with any of it
right now.
So what we need to do is set the state
locally in our application,
as well. So, we'll say, "this.setState,"
say the user ID is going to be the same
thing, "authData.user.uid," and then the
"owner:" is going to be either,
"data"...what's data? Data is the actual
"store.owner" or it's going to be
"authData.user.uid." Good. That was a lot.
It's a little bit confusing having to jump
between the two, so maybe take a second to
just read over that a couple times to see
if you know what's going on here, but now
I think when I log in with GitHub...aha,
look what happens. When I log in with
GitHub, it comes back and now gives me the
fish. I can load in a whole bunch of
sample fishes, I can remove those fishes,
and be able to update my Firebase.
Now, there is a problem in that, when I
refresh, I have to log in again.
Every single time I refresh, I have to log
in again, and then I'll be able to
actually edit it. So, when would we do
that? Well, hopefully, you're thinking
back to when we've previously done that
and we can use one of the React lifecycle
hooks to hook into it, and the one that
we're going to be using is called,
"component did mount." I;m going to go up
to the top here, right underneath
constructor, and we're going to use
"componentDidMount." I sort of like to
always put all of my lifecycle and
constructor stuff above all of my custom
stuff, and then I like to put my render
right at the bottom, but that's just a
personal preference. So we say,
"base.onAuth" and that is going to
listen...this is sort of like base is our
database, and then onAuth is sort of like
if you've done jQuery, you could say,
"on'auth'" or "on'click'," so "onAuth" is
going to listen for when we load the page,
Firebase is going to immediately try to
authenticate myself again. And, when that
happens, we're going to run this user
here, and we are going to check if there's
a user, and then, if there is,
we're just going to call
"this.authHandler" again. We're not going
to pass anything there, and then we'll
pass the user along with it.
So, we're using this authHandler callback
both once for when the actual user gets
signed in the first time, and then
subsequently every single time that we
reload the page, we're going to call this
authHandler again, and then that should,
in turn, do all the checking and the
setting of state and all that hard stuff.
And so now I save. Hopefully, when it
refreshes...yes, you see,
like, for a split second there, we do see
the log in buttons, and,
again, you could use your lifecycle hooks
to prevent that, but as soon as it loads,
as soon as it did mount, then it's up and
running. So, that is our authentication on
the client side. We just need to hook up
this "LOG OUT" button.
So, I'm going to go right underneath our
authenticate, and we're going to make a,
"logout" method, that doesn't take any
arguments in, and then inside of that,
we do a couple things. First, we need to
just run "base.unauth," it's really easy,
it's going to connect, or we already
connected to it, and run unauth.
That'll log us out and sever any ties we
have with Firebase. And then we simply say
"this.setState" and we are going to set
the user ID of the currently logged in
person to be nothing because we need to
delete that as well. Then,
of course, we'll do our whole song and
dance where we go to the top here and bind
logout, and then we go to our button where
we created the logout button.
Here we go. And then "onClick= =>
this.logout." Actually, in this case,
because we are not passing any arguments,
we can simply just pass it like this,
"this.logout" You only need to do that
song and dance here for when you need to
pass an argument, so we'll say,
"this.logout" and when I click it,
it will just sign me on out. And then I
can go ahead and sign in again with
GitHub, should I want that.
Now we actually need to head on to the
other side, which is secure things at
Firebase's end because, like, I visually
can't edit these fish,
but anybody with a little bit of know-how
as to how Firebase works would be able to
figure out how to query and edit all the
different fishes if they knew how Firebase
works. So, we need to go to Firebase, our
security rules. So, click on Database,
go to your database and click on rules,
and way earlier, like,
many videos ago, we set "read" and "write"
to be true. Now what we need to do is
change those security rules, and I've
provided you a file called
"Security-rules. JSON." I'm just going to
paste them in here, and then I'll explain
them.for you. So, I'm just going to paste
it in here, and I'm going to go through it
with you.
So, the rules.
Reading. Anybody can read
it, right? True. Write.
You can only write to it if the data
doesn't exist. So, this let's people not
being able to delete an existing room.
Otherwise, you could call Firebase.delete.
And then on each individual room, and
that's just like sort of one level down,
that's what I did with "$r," only the
store owner can edit the data.
So, in order to...anybody can read. Right?
No problem. Anybody can read all of that
data, but to write to that individual room
or to write to that individual
store...maybe that would be better to be
called...we have to say that when new data
comes into Firebase, if the owner is not
equal to the currently authenticated user
ID, then don't allow them. So, that's how
Firebase works. You have to set these
rules for reading and writing. And, in
this case, we will not let anybody write
to it unless the owner...again, I can show
you the owner ID is equal to whatever the
owner, the user's ID when they are
actually logged in. And that will lock it
down so that no one can monkey around with
it up behind the scenes.
So, let's save that, make sure that your
rules are in there...
I forgot to save it...and I'm going to
publish them. Good. Then I'm just going to
go ahead and refresh this. Good, and I
should still be able to say,
"Hey Ho," refresh and it still says "Hey
Ho." I log out, and I'm not able to
actually edit it. Good.